+++
title = "2001?"
description = "A brief mention on why there's articles from 2001 on my site."
draft = false
comments = true
date = "2007-04-15T15:27:00-05:00"
slug = "2001"
blogengine = "70d8315b-31d6-4914-849d-2fa42d9e157d"
categories = ["StrivingLife"]
tags = []
+++

<p>
Unlike most sites that use blogging software, I use mine simply because it&#39;s the easiest way to post the content I write (even if upgrading is a pain in the neck).  Ditto for Gavin&#39;s <a href="http://framingbusiness.net/">The Framing Business</a>.
</p>
<!--more--><!--adsense-->
<p>
This afternoon, with nothing much better to do, I created a new category and posted some rather old pieces of &#39;prose&#39;. Among the pieces were two from 2001. Since I wrote them in 2001, and I actually care about the date I associate with content, I marked them as being written when they were first written; April and May of 2001.
</p>
<p>
The fact of the matter is, I write my pieces because I want to be able to refer back to them; I want to know what I was thinking at a particular point in time, and using my writings is a good way to see that.
</p>
<p>
For example, approximately a year ago, I was looking at Attention Trust. Interestingly enough, a couple days ago I finally updated the Firefox add-on (for whatever reason, it wasn&#39;t checking for a new version - perhaps it was just looking at the wrong spot). Also interestingly, I was unable to login to my ROOT vault again ...
</p>
<p>
Most of what I write I write for a reason, and most of what I write I&#39;ll want to be able to go back to in the future. Granted, I don&#39;t write every day, but that&#39;s something I&#39;d really like to change. Every day, either take pictures, or write.
</p>

